---
layout: post
title:  "Release: 1.0.0"
date:   2014-10-06
---

I am pleased to announce release of OMERO.figure 1.0.0.
This release adds support for maximum-intensity Z-projection, as well as
a number of other features and minor bug fixes.
A video of this release can be found here:

<iframe width="640" height="360" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/P0MMKtIKdFY?rel=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

We have decided to remove the beta flag from OMERO.figure with this release,
since it has been in use on our production OMERO
server since its first release in March of this year.
During that time, there have only been minor bug reports and the file format has remained
very stable.

Maximum-Intensity projection:

  - For Z-stack images, you can click a button (below the channel buttons) to turn on Z-projection.
    The range of Z-indices can then be chosen using a 2-handled Z-slider.
  - Initially, the Z-range is only 5 slices and is centered on the current Z-index.
    This allows you include objects just above and below the current position in the projection,
    without losing your place in the Z-stack.
  - If you want a projection of the entire Z-stack, you can simply drag the sliders to
    the full range.

Increment Z and T indices:

  - Small arrow buttons at the ends of the Z and T sliders now allow you to increment the Z or T index of
    all the selected panels by 1 at a time.
  - This is particularly useful if you want to 'play' through a
    movie of several selected panels at once. 

Other Features:

  - Exported PDF figures now contain the url of the source OMERO.figure file so that you can always return
    to the original figure.
  - When you go to open a figure (File > Open), only figures owned by you are initially displayed in the list. You can
    find files belonging to collaborators in your OMERO groups by using the 'Owner' drop-down chooser.


Bug Fixes:

  - Editing of timestamp labels previously caused all selected labels to show the same text. This
    has now been fixed.
  - Exported PDFs are now named according to the figure name, instead of a timestamp-based name.


Grab the release from the OMERO.figure [1.0.0 download page](http://downloads.openmicroscopy.org/figure/1.0.0/).
