---
layout: post
title:  "Release: 4.0.0"
date:   2018-05-22
---

We are pleased to announce the release of OMERO.figure 4.0.0.

This is a major release that adds support for "big" tiled Images.
It includes changes to the way ROI stroke-widths are displayed. 
Previously, ROI stroke-widths were measured in image pixels so that
lines appear thinner as an image panel was zoomed out.
However, this meant that lines of similar width can appear at different
thicknesses on different images. It also meant that on "big" Images that
were zoomed out a long way, lines would disappear completely.

Now, stroke-widths are measured by page points so all lines of a
similar stroke-width will appear the same thickness on the page,
independent of the size or zoom of the panel they are on.

When older figures are opened with OMERO.figure 4.0.0, stroke-widths
will be updated so that the appearance of ROI lines remains the same.

Other features:

* Allow loading Polygons and Polylines from OMERO to add to Images
* Open-with Figure and adding Images now preserves the order of Images
* Support for adding label of T-index to time-lapse Images
* Show a spinner while loading new Images

For developers:

* Use test_infra to test listing of figure files
* Breaking change in figure JSON model. Stroke-widths changed (see above) and export-dpi renamed to min-export-dpi
* Use shape-editor 4.0.0 to support Polygons and Polylines and not scale stroke-width

This release also upgrades the required version of OMERO
to 5.4.0 or newer.
